
[00:00] Do you ever wonder why your revenue is absolutely brilliant one month and then absolutely brilliant one month and then it's dead the next even when you're it's dead the next even when you're working hard from month to month? Well, working hard from month to month? Well, you've probably got deliverables nailed. you've probably got deliverables nailed. But the sales side of things is a But the sales side of things is a completely different story. Most completely different story. Most business owners are winning deals on business owners are winning deals on talent and hustle and hoping that the

[00:16] talent and hustle and hoping that the referrals keep coming in and that's referrals keep coming in and that's what's driving this feast and famine what's driving this feast and famine revenue cycle that you're probably revenue cycle that you're probably experiencing. So, in this video, I'm experiencing. So, in this video, I'm going to show you the six components of going to show you the six components of the sales system that's going to make the sales system that's going to make your revenue predictable so you can go your revenue predictable so you can go out there, make way more money, and have out there, make way more money, and have importantly a much more stable business

[00:32] importantly a much more stable business as well. Now, most service business as well. Now, most service business owners have built something genuinely owners have built something genuinely impressive. A delivery process that runs impressive. A delivery process that runs the same way every time, gets results, the same way every time, gets results, and keeps clients coming back for more. and keeps clients coming back for more. And then you look at how you win those And then you look at how you win those clients in the first place, and it's clients in the first place, and it's referrals. It's hoping that the phone

[00:48] referrals. It's hoping that the phone rings, it's a whole bunch of nothing, rings, it's a whole bunch of nothing, basically. And and that should make you basically. And and that should make you feel a little bit uncomfortable because feel a little bit uncomfortable because if you think about the two halves of if you think about the two halves of your business and how systematized they your business and how systematized they are well on the delivery side, you've are well on the delivery side, you've probably got a process in place and it probably got a process in place and it works. You know what happens on day one.

[01:03] works. You know what happens on day one. You know what happens on week two with You know what happens on week two with the client. A new team member could join the client. A new team member could join the team and they could run it and they team and they could run it and they could have success. A client could could have success. A client could probably describe what they're getting probably describe what they're getting and when they're going to get it. And and when they're going to get it. And that's why your clients stay and that's that's why your clients stay and that's why you get referrals in the first place

[01:18] why you get referrals in the first place because the deliverables and the because the deliverables and the experience that your clients receiving experience that your clients receiving is so consistent. But from the sales is so consistent. But from the sales side of things, well, it's whoever side of things, well, it's whoever happens to stumble into your inbox or happens to stumble into your inbox or drop you a line. It's the referral that drop you a line. It's the referral that came in because a current client

[01:34] came in because a current client randomly mentioned you in a conversation randomly mentioned you in a conversation with one of their friends. You perhaps with one of their friends. You perhaps follow up with prospects, but only when follow up with prospects, but only when you remember to do so. and you're you remember to do so. and you're probably checking your CRM on a Monday probably checking your CRM on a Monday morning, realizing they haven't spoke to morning, realizing they haven't spoke to a new prospect in 3 weeks, panicking and a new prospect in 3 weeks, panicking and putting together some prospecting putting together some prospecting activity. So whilst your deliverables

[01:51] activity. So whilst your deliverables run on a documented repeated process, run on a documented repeated process, your sales runs on a bit of luck and your sales runs on a bit of luck and then random spurts of sales activity then random spurts of sales activity when you start to panic about the when you start to panic about the revenue that is or probably isn't coming revenue that is or probably isn't coming in next quarter. And that gap is exactly in next quarter. And that gap is exactly what causes this boom and bust cycle what causes this boom and bust cycle that most service business owners are

[02:08] that most service business owners are stuck in. revenue dips. So, you go into stuck in. revenue dips. So, you go into panic mode. You start hustling for new panic mode. You start hustling for new clients. You get busy again. And the clients. You get busy again. And the moment that you're busy, you take your moment that you're busy, you take your foot off the gas. You have a a bit of a foot off the gas. You have a a bit of a chill, and then you stop selling chill, and then you stop selling because, well, you don't got time because, well, you don't got time because you do all this client work because you do all this client work instead. And these frantic months, and

[02:23] instead. And these frantic months, and then the quiet months, well, they're not then the quiet months, well, they're not random. And I've seen this from working random. And I've seen this from working with over 1,100 business owners at this with over 1,100 business owners at this point. They are the predictable result point. They are the predictable result of a sales process that only runs when of a sales process that only runs when you're desperate enough to get your bum you're desperate enough to get your bum in the chair and start doing your in the chair and start doing your prospecting activities. And the craziest prospecting activities. And the craziest thing about all this from my perspective

[02:39] thing about all this from my perspective is that most business owners tell is that most business owners tell themselves that this is due to a lack of themselves that this is due to a lack of time. They just don't have the time to time. They just don't have the time to get these sales activities done each get these sales activities done each week. And if they just had a little bit week. And if they just had a little bit more room to breathe, they'd sort the more room to breathe, they'd sort the sales side of things out. However, in my sales side of things out. However, in my experience, again, dealing with over a

[02:55] experience, again, dealing with over a thousand business owners at this point thousand business owners at this point who have generated over $1.4 billion who have generated over $1.4 billion using my sales systems. Well, the reason using my sales systems. Well, the reason you don't have time is because you've you don't have time is because you've not got the sales system in place in the not got the sales system in place in the first place. And that's exactly what I'm first place. And that's exactly what I'm going to help you with with this video. going to help you with with this video. But before you can build any sales

[03:10] But before you can build any sales system, you need to understand one key system, you need to understand one key question. And that key question is question. And that key question is answered once when a business owner like answered once when a business owner like yourself first start up their business. yourself first start up their business. They file it away and then that's the They file it away and then that's the last time they think about it. And that last time they think about it. And that is a problem because the answer to this is a problem because the answer to this question is what the entirety the whole

[03:26] question is what the entirety the whole sales system rests on top of. And so sales system rests on top of. And so we've got to make sure that we've got it we've got to make sure that we've got it right. Now, the instinct for most right. Now, the instinct for most business owners is to say that, well, we business owners is to say that, well, we will work with anyone who needs what we will work with anyone who needs what we do. And that feels like the right thing do. And that feels like the right thing to say because it keeps your options to say because it keeps your options open. But your messaging then at that

[03:43] open. But your messaging then at that point from the very top of your sales point from the very top of your sales process has to speak to everyone and so process has to speak to everyone and so ends up speaking to absolutely no one. ends up speaking to absolutely no one. The prospect reads your cold outreach or The prospect reads your cold outreach or your ads and they think, "Yeah, this your ads and they think, "Yeah, this might be for me, but it might not be for might be for me, but it might not be for me." They're unsure and so they don't

[03:58] me." They're unsure and so they don't book a call. they don't progress through book a call. they don't progress through the sales process because if they can't the sales process because if they can't answer the question at a glance in less answer the question at a glance in less than a second of is this offer very than a second of is this offer very specifically for me and my problem, specifically for me and my problem, they're just going to move on. And from they're just going to move on. And from your perspective, this can be super your perspective, this can be super frustrating knowing that you can really frustrating knowing that you can really help someone solve a painful business

[04:14] help someone solve a painful business problem, but they're just not giving you problem, but they're just not giving you the time for you to really help them the time for you to really help them understand the depth of this problem and understand the depth of this problem and how you can help them on a quick call. how you can help them on a quick call. And this is what your ICP fixes. So this And this is what your ICP fixes. So this is your ideal customer profile and the is your ideal customer profile and the whole point of it is to get specific

[04:31] whole point of it is to get specific enough about the people that you deliver enough about the people that you deliver the most value to so that when they see the most value to so that when they see the messaging that you've built around messaging that you've built around your ICP they go hey that that is your ICP they go hey that that is literally me. I have that exact problem literally me. I have that exact problem and that exact solution is what I've and that exact solution is what I've been looking hoping to find and so they been looking hoping to find and so they book a call on your calendar and they

[04:46] book a call on your calendar and they want to learn more. Perfect. Right now want to learn more. Perfect. Right now to give you a bit of contrast here to to to give you a bit of contrast here to to make this real for you here are two make this real for you here are two emails. So the first email goes hi the emails. So the first email goes hi the person's name I help business owners person's name I help business owners increase their revenue. makes sense to increase their revenue. makes sense to jump a quick call and I'll explain how. jump a quick call and I'll explain how. Then you got the second email of I help Then you got the second email of I help business owners of service-based

[05:01] business owners of service-based businesses doing between $20,000 and businesses doing between $20,000 and $200,000 a month find and close more $200,000 a month find and close more deals in the next 30 days or your money deals in the next 30 days or your money back. We do this by implementing a back. We do this by implementing a simple selling system that eliminates simple selling system that eliminates the up and down roller coaster of sales the up and down roller coaster of sales that you're probably on right now. Make that you're probably on right now. Make sense? Jump on a quick call and I'll sense? Jump on a quick call and I'll explain how. So, two emails, just a few

[05:18] explain how. So, two emails, just a few more words from one to the other and more words from one to the other and hopefully you can see the difference hopefully you can see the difference there. If you are a business owner, if there. If you are a business owner, if you receive this email and you're a you receive this email and you're a business owner who sells a service, who business owner who sells a service, who is on the roller coaster of sales and is on the roller coaster of sales and you're within that revenue range, i.e. you're within that revenue range, i.e. you are within a very specific ICP, then

[05:34] you are within a very specific ICP, then you're way more likely to think, hm, you're way more likely to think, hm, this looks perfectly suited to me, and this looks perfectly suited to me, and you're going to reply way more often to you're going to reply way more often to the second email over the more general the second email over the more general and broad first one. So, that's the and broad first one. So, that's the power of narrowing down your ICP. And power of narrowing down your ICP. And what you're thinking right now is, well, what you're thinking right now is, well, why why do I want to go after a thousand

[05:50] why why do I want to go after a thousand people rather than 50,000 people? Well, people rather than 50,000 people? Well, the answer is you're going to close a the answer is you're going to close a much higher percentage of those 1,000 much higher percentage of those 1,000 people with a very specific ICP than the people with a very specific ICP than the much lower percentage that you're going much lower percentage that you're going to close of that much broader, more to close of that much broader, more generic audience that you're probably generic audience that you're probably trying to go after right now. So, how do

[06:05] trying to go after right now. So, how do you narrow down the ideal person in the you narrow down the ideal person in the first place? Well, you want to start first place? Well, you want to start with the clients that you've already got with the clients that you've already got great results from working with already. great results from working with already. You don't want to reinvent the wheel You don't want to reinvent the wheel with any of this if you don't have to. with any of this if you don't have to. What you should do is just ask yourself, What you should do is just ask yourself, what did they have in common? And don't what did they have in common? And don't stop at the obvious stuff either. So

[06:21] stop at the obvious stuff either. So things like industry or company size, things like industry or company size, they're a good starting point, but they're a good starting point, but they're not enough to really narrow down not enough to really narrow down your ICP on their own. What we're really your ICP on their own. What we're really looking for is the specific pain they looking for is the specific pain they were battling when they came to you and were battling when they came to you and what made them ready to act now rather

[06:36] what made them ready to act now rather than at some random point in the future. than at some random point in the future. And that very specific combination of And that very specific combination of the problem plus the trigger is going to the problem plus the trigger is going to tell you exactly who's going to book a tell you exactly who's going to book a call and buy right now rather than call and buy right now rather than someone who might book a call maybe and someone who might book a call maybe and might theoretically be interested at might theoretically be interested at some point in the future. And it's much

[06:52] some point in the future. And it's much more profitable to spend time with more profitable to spend time with people who want to buy right now rather people who want to buy right now rather than trying to convince someone who than trying to convince someone who isn't yet sold on changing their ways isn't yet sold on changing their ways that they should work with you at some that they should work with you at some point in the future. And every part of point in the future. And every part of the sales system that you're about to the sales system that you're about to build, how you find prospects, what you build, how you find prospects, what you say to them, how you run discovery

[07:08] say to them, how you run discovery calls, all of this only works if it's calls, all of this only works if it's aimed at that right person from the aimed at that right person from the start. This is why it's so important to start. This is why it's so important to build out your ICP. So now you know build out your ICP. So now you know exactly who you're targeting. The next exactly who you're targeting. The next question is how you find those people in question is how you find those people in the marketplace and then jump on a quick the marketplace and then jump on a quick call with them. Because without a

[07:23] call with them. Because without a repeatable process to book meetings, repeatable process to book meetings, lead generation is going to remain lead generation is going to remain something that you you only do when something that you you only do when you're in a panic and when you check you're in a panic and when you check your bank account and it's looking a your bank account and it's looking a little bit empty. Now, having worked little bit empty. Now, having worked with a bunch of businesses over at with a bunch of businesses over at salesman.com over the past 10 years, salesman.com over the past 10 years, what does the service business lead

[07:39] what does the service business lead generation process typically look like? generation process typically look like? Well, it typically looks like a complete Well, it typically looks like a complete mess of just ad hoc bits and pieces here mess of just ad hoc bits and pieces here and there. The business owners are and there. The business owners are waiting for referrals. They're DMing waiting for referrals. They're DMing random people on LinkedIn when they random people on LinkedIn when they realize that they've got no meetings realize that they've got no meetings booked in for that next week. They're

[07:55] booked in for that next week. They're hoping that someone reaches out based on hoping that someone reaches out based on the Google ads that they've hired some the Google ads that they've hired some random young inexperienced person to run random young inexperienced person to run because they just can't be asked to because they just can't be asked to learn the paid ads themselves. And the learn the paid ads themselves. And the reason that this keeps you stuck in this reason that this keeps you stuck in this boom and bust loop is that it's almost boom and bust loop is that it's almost all reactive. You're not running a

[08:10] all reactive. You're not running a system that generates leads. Instead, system that generates leads. Instead, you're hoping that they just magically you're hoping that they just magically appear and fall into your lap. And a appear and fall into your lap. And a repeatable process looks completely repeatable process looks completely different to this. It means following different to this. It means following the same steps in the same order every the same steps in the same order every single time, regardless of regardless of single time, regardless of regardless of how boring the process is, and also

[08:26] how boring the process is, and also regarding of how busy you are. If you regarding of how busy you are. If you want to make a bunch of money running a want to make a bunch of money running a business that sells a service, there are business that sells a service, there are going to be some boring parts to the going to be some boring parts to the sales process. The good news is is that sales process. The good news is is that once we systematize them all, you can once we systematize them all, you can hand them off to someone else to run. hand them off to someone else to run. So, they're not going to be boring So, they're not going to be boring forever. And the starting point to forever. And the starting point to building this prospecting part of the

[08:42] building this prospecting part of the overall sales system is figuring out overall sales system is figuring out where your ICP lives. So, what platforms where your ICP lives. So, what platforms are they on? What communities are they are they on? What communities are they spending time in? What events do they spending time in? What events do they physically show up to in, you know, physically show up to in, you know, heaven forbid you go somewhere in the heaven forbid you go somewhere in the real world to do some prospecting? What real world to do some prospecting? What are some of the signals that tell you

[08:58] are some of the signals that tell you that someone is ready to have a that someone is ready to have a conversation with you right now? Because conversation with you right now? Because once you know where your ICP is, you can once you know where your ICP is, you can then build a process to reach them at then build a process to reach them at the right moment and book meetings again the right moment and book meetings again super reliably. In fact, all you need to super reliably. In fact, all you need to do to fill your calendar every single do to fill your calendar every single month is just focus on three simple

[09:14] month is just focus on three simple things. finding the right person at the things. finding the right person at the right time and then putting the right right time and then putting the right message in front of them. That is message in front of them. That is literally it. I've worked with business literally it. I've worked with business owners at this point who've been trying owners at this point who've been trying to crack this cold outreach puzzle for to crack this cold outreach puzzle for for years if not decades with very for years if not decades with very little luck and very little success who

[09:29] little luck and very little success who start consistently booking meetings when start consistently booking meetings when they narrow down the focus to just they narrow down the focus to just getting those three things sorted. And getting those three things sorted. And then there's the outreach itself. Right? then there's the outreach itself. Right? So, for most business owners who are So, for most business owners who are selling a service that costs more than selling a service that costs more than $5 to $10,000, you want to do the $5 to $10,000, you want to do the opposite of what everyone here on opposite of what everyone here on YouTube is telling you to do right now.

[09:45] YouTube is telling you to do right now. You don't want to do mass AI slop emails You don't want to do mass AI slop emails over 50 different random domains. It's over 50 different random domains. It's just not going to work for you. Instead, just not going to work for you. Instead, where we're seeing a lot of success of where we're seeing a lot of success of our clients right now is targeted our clients right now is targeted messages going to the right people at messages going to the right people at exactly the right moments. And of

[10:01] exactly the right moments. And of course, we're going to use automation course, we're going to use automation and tools to help pull this part of the and tools to help pull this part of the system together so that the outreach system together so that the outreach doesn't take you 10 hours a day to make doesn't take you 10 hours a day to make happen. But if you want to break through happen. But if you want to break through this massive amount of AI slop that's in this massive amount of AI slop that's in my inbox is probably hitting your inbox my inbox is probably hitting your inbox as well, then you need to send messages as well, then you need to send messages that are actually good that actually

[10:18] that are actually good that actually break through the noise that actually break through the noise that actually deliver something of value to your deliver something of value to your buyer. Your message must reference buyer. Your message must reference something about their specific business, something about their specific business, their role, the problem they're facing their role, the problem they're facing right now. You must show with a strong right now. You must show with a strong hypothesis. And it doesn't matter if hypothesis. And it doesn't matter if your hypothesis is slightly off. You your hypothesis is slightly off. You want to be bold with your hypothesis

[10:34] want to be bold with your hypothesis that you know what their issue is and that you know what their issue is and you know what their pain point is better you know what their pain point is better than what they do. And that's what than what they do. And that's what separates the messages that get ignored separates the messages that get ignored or the ones that get thrown into your or the ones that get thrown into your spam folder versus the ones that start spam folder versus the ones that start conversations and book meetings in your conversations and book meetings in your diary. And as a quick side note, I find diary. And as a quick side note, I find myself repeating regularly in our group

[10:50] myself repeating regularly in our group mentorship calls in in our mentorship mentorship calls in in our mentorship program that every single touch point program that every single touch point has one goal with your cold outreach and has one goal with your cold outreach and that is get a meeting booked. This is that is get a meeting booked. This is something that people tend to get wrong something that people tend to get wrong when they first start working with us. when they first start working with us. You are not here to pitch your service. You are not here to pitch your service. You're not here to explain the

[11:06] You're not here to explain the deliverables. All we're trying to do is deliverables. All we're trying to do is just get them in a conversation with you just get them in a conversation with you on the phone preferably or Zoom call, on the phone preferably or Zoom call, Google Meets, whatever it may be. And Google Meets, whatever it may be. And then we'll deal with all the other stuff then we'll deal with all the other stuff that we have to get through in our sales that we have to get through in our sales process in the next step of the selling process in the next step of the selling system. So when lead generation runs as system. So when lead generation runs as a process instead of something that

[11:23] a process instead of something that you're you're doing randomly when you you're you're doing randomly when you just start crapping yourself at the end just start crapping yourself at the end of the month that there's no new client of the month that there's no new client meetings in the diary, you're going to meetings in the diary, you're going to find yourself because you're putting find yourself because you're putting consistent effort in with consistent consistent effort in with consistent results as well. The top of your results as well. The top of your pipeline is going to stay full whether pipeline is going to stay full whether you're in the the heaviest month of your you're in the the heaviest month of your delivery of the year or not because the

[11:40] delivery of the year or not because the sales system is going to be running in sales system is going to be running in the background regardless. But getting a the background regardless. But getting a meeting booked in the diary is only half meeting booked in the diary is only half of the job, right? Because well, of the job, right? Because well, prospects are going to show up to that prospects are going to show up to that call cold, skeptical, and with what I call cold, skeptical, and with what I call the sales shield up in between you the sales shield up in between you both. That they're going to be ready and

[11:56] both. That they're going to be ready and primed to say no. Or even worse, I'll primed to say no. Or even worse, I'll think about it, and then they never get think about it, and then they never get back to you. But we can turn that around back to you. But we can turn that around with what we do between the moment that with what we do between the moment that we book the meeting and the moment that we book the meeting and the moment that we engage with the prospect. And to make engage with the prospect. And to make this more real, I to think about what this more real, I to think about what the default experience looks like from a

[12:12] the default experience looks like from a prospect's side when they are dealing prospect's side when they are dealing with with service-based vendors. They with with service-based vendors. They book a call. They probably know very book a call. They probably know very little about you because they booked a little about you because they booked a call from an advert or a video or or call from an advert or a video or or whatever it may be. And then the whatever it may be. And then the prospect spends the first 10 minutes of prospect spends the first 10 minutes of the conversation with the business the conversation with the business owner, with the salesperson deciding,

[12:29] owner, with the salesperson deciding, well, do I trust this individual to well, do I trust this individual to solve my painful problem? And that is solve my painful problem? And that is from the business owner's perspective or from the business owner's perspective or the salesperson's perspective. That's 10 the salesperson's perspective. That's 10 minutes of of highstakes chess. And it minutes of of highstakes chess. And it takes a lot of skill to build that trust takes a lot of skill to build that trust directly one-on-one when you're with directly one-on-one when you're with that person. Now, the better way to go

[12:45] that person. Now, the better way to go about doing this is to use the about doing this is to use the indoctrination system. We teach this in indoctrination system. We teach this in our mentorship, but this allows you to our mentorship, but this allows you to build enough trust before the call. So, build enough trust before the call. So, you don't have to do any of that faffing you don't have to do any of that faffing around on the call itself, and you can around on the call itself, and you can get straight into the the delivery call get straight into the the delivery call process without having to build a bunch process without having to build a bunch of trust before the person even opens

[13:01] of trust before the person even opens their ears to hearing what you've got to their ears to hearing what you've got to say. And the idea behind all this is say. And the idea behind all this is pretty simple. before the prospect picks pretty simple. before the prospect picks up the phone to speak with you. Our goal up the phone to speak with you. Our goal is that they know exactly what you do, is that they know exactly what you do, how you solve the problem, and why your how you solve the problem, and why your unique and interesting approach works. unique and interesting approach works. And when the buyer understands all this

[13:17] And when the buyer understands all this before the call itself, well, now before the call itself, well, now there's urgency for them to do something there's urgency for them to do something on the call to make a decision rather on the call to make a decision rather than just jumping on a call to to than just jumping on a call to to investigate if this is a a potential investigate if this is a a potential solution to their problem. And for solution to their problem. And for sales.com, I do this with a series of sales.com, I do this with a series of emails that are written in a specific

[13:32] emails that are written in a specific way, whilst pushing people who book a way, whilst pushing people who book a call to two more YouTube videos like call to two more YouTube videos like this. So they can binge watch another this. So they can binge watch another two hours of of this ugly mug before two hours of of this ugly mug before they jump on a call with the team. So they jump on a call with the team. So they already know basically whether they already know basically whether they trust me or they trust the service and trust me or they trust the service and what we offer and they learn more about

[13:47] what we offer and they learn more about the team and the offer. They get all the team and the offer. They get all that from these kind of YouTube videos. that from these kind of YouTube videos. So when they jump on a call, they've had So when they jump on a call, they've had a series of steps that have a series of steps that have indoctrinated them and they've also indoctrinated them and they've also hopefully consumed 1 hour, 2 hours, 3 hopefully consumed 1 hour, 2 hours, 3 hours of this content as well. So let me hours of this content as well. So let me give you a literal example from our give you a literal example from our email sequence when people book a call.

[14:03] email sequence when people book a call. So I send this exact email to people who So I send this exact email to people who book a call with our team and it goes book a call with our team and it goes something like, "Hey, looking forward to something like, "Hey, looking forward to speaking to you on our scheduled call. speaking to you on our scheduled call. Can you please take a look through the Can you please take a look through the short videos on this page? The videos short videos on this page? The videos explain how the mentorship works, how explain how the mentorship works, how we're going to deliver you a positive we're going to deliver you a positive ROI within the first 30 days, and then

[14:19] ROI within the first 30 days, and then they answer some questions that you may they answer some questions that you may have right now. Watching the videos have right now. Watching the videos means that we can have more time in our means that we can have more time in our call to dig into your situation and to call to dig into your situation and to see if the salesman.com mentorship is see if the salesman.com mentorship is the right fit for your business. So, the right fit for your business. So, they then click the link in the email. they then click the link in the email. It takes them through to this page where It takes them through to this page where I then deliver on the promises within I then deliver on the promises within the email and I give them an additional

[14:36] the email and I give them an additional FAQ at the end of this page as well. And FAQ at the end of this page as well. And this is really important because this this is really important because this deals with most of the common sales deals with most of the common sales objections that we used to get on our objections that we used to get on our sales calls. And now once people see sales calls. And now once people see this, they've been indoctrinated by the this, they've been indoctrinated by the answers to these FAQ questions. Now answers to these FAQ questions. Now these objections very rarely come up

[14:51] these objections very rarely come up anymore because again, we've dealt with anymore because again, we've dealt with them ahead of time. And look, if you're them ahead of time. And look, if you're sat there watching this right now and sat there watching this right now and you're thinking, there's quite a lot of you're thinking, there's quite a lot of stuff I've got to build here, Will, I stuff I've got to build here, Will, I need a hand to build it. And you'd like need a hand to build it. And you'd like me and my team to help build this sales me and my team to help build this sales system out for you, then click the link system out for you, then click the link in the video description below to book a in the video description below to book a call with my team. We'll take a look at

[15:07] call with my team. We'll take a look at your numbers. We'll see where you're your numbers. We'll see where you're stuck. And if we can help, we'll offer stuck. And if we can help, we'll offer you a place in a mentorship, and then you a place in a mentorship, and then you can potentially get started with us. can potentially get started with us. So, that's one example from the So, that's one example from the indoctrination process. And what we're indoctrination process. And what we're trying to do here is engineer easier, trying to do here is engineer easier, better, more productive sales calls better, more productive sales calls before they even jump on the call with

[15:23] before they even jump on the call with us. Okay? So, now the prospect is on the us. Okay? So, now the prospect is on the call. And this is where most service call. And this is where most service business owners undo everything that business owners undo everything that their sales system has worked hard to their sales system has worked hard to build up until this point. Because most build up until this point. Because most business owners, the moment someone business owners, the moment someone tells you their problem, they tend to tells you their problem, they tend to get excited. You you know that you can

[15:39] get excited. You you know that you can help them. So you start explaining your help them. So you start explaining your service, what makes you different, your service, what makes you different, your process, how it all works. And that push process, how it all works. And that push to try and help your prospects in that to try and help your prospects in that moment is what's causing them to go, moment is what's causing them to go, "Okay, I need to think about it." And "Okay, I need to think about it." And then they ghost you and never speak to then they ghost you and never speak to you again straight after the call wraps

[15:54] you again straight after the call wraps up. So let's take a look at the steps up. So let's take a look at the steps you need to go through on your discovery you need to go through on your discovery calls to help the buyer say yes. So, in calls to help the buyer say yes. So, in a nutshell, what we're doing here is a nutshell, what we're doing here is questions first, solutions later, right? questions first, solutions later, right? So, drill this into your brain. So, drill this into your brain. Questions first, solutions later. And I

[16:11] Questions first, solutions later. And I always tell my clients to try and act always tell my clients to try and act the best you can like a doctor. So, if the best you can like a doctor. So, if you went to a GP because you had a sore you went to a GP because you had a sore leg, they wouldn't just take your word leg, they wouldn't just take your word for it that your leg was sore and then for it that your leg was sore and then prescribe you some pain relief and then prescribe you some pain relief and then send you out the door, right? A doctor send you out the door, right? A doctor would ask you some questions about,

[16:26] would ask you some questions about, well, when did the pain start? How well, when did the pain start? How painful is it actually in the grand painful is it actually in the grand scheme of things or on a scale of 1 to scheme of things or on a scale of 1 to 10? What happens if you move your leg 10? What happens if you move your leg one way or another? They might send you one way or another? They might send you for for an X-ray. They might send you for for an X-ray. They might send you for a scan if they think that'll help. a scan if they think that'll help. And only then, only once they've And only then, only once they've gathered all this information and

[16:41] gathered all this information and they've braced you as to how severe the they've braced you as to how severe the issue actually is, do they give the issue actually is, do they give the diagnosis. And you need to do the same diagnosis. And you need to do the same on your discovery calls if you want to on your discovery calls if you want to convert more of your clients. Now, to convert more of your clients. Now, to put this into practice, we need to go put this into practice, we need to go through six main steps on our discovery through six main steps on our discovery calls. First, pain. You got to ask what

[16:57] calls. First, pain. You got to ask what happens if this doesn't get resolved. happens if this doesn't get resolved. You got to ask them who else this You got to ask them who else this affects. You want to go deep into affects. You want to go deep into whether it affects them personally. If whether it affects them personally. If they're the business owner you're they're the business owner you're engaging with, like with my clients, engaging with, like with my clients, does it affect their family? Does it does it affect their family? Does it affect their household? You want to go affect their household? You want to go deeper and deeper and deeper into the

[17:13] deeper and deeper and deeper into the pain. You basically want them to feel pain. You basically want them to feel the weight of the problem as as as the weight of the problem as as as they're sat in front of you. You want they're sat in front of you. You want them to feel uncomfortable. You want them to feel uncomfortable. You want them to believe that they can't deal believe that they can't deal with this on their own anymore. And then with this on their own anymore. And then second, we want to find the trigger that second, we want to find the trigger that led them to want to jump in this call in

[17:28] led them to want to jump in this call in the first place. So it's a it's a lost the first place. So it's a it's a lost client or a target that didn't get hit client or a target that didn't get hit or a competitor that appeared out of or a competitor that appeared out of nowhere that's coming along and might nowhere that's coming along and might take a whole chunk of their business. take a whole chunk of their business. Whatever it is, this is the specific Whatever it is, this is the specific thing in this specific moment that's thing in this specific moment that's going to drive the urgency across the

[17:44] going to drive the urgency across the rest of the sales process. Third, we rest of the sales process. Third, we want to help the prospect understand the want to help the prospect understand the bigger, brighter, bolder future reality bigger, brighter, bolder future reality that they'd be moving to if they solve that they'd be moving to if they solve the problem and if they start working the problem and if they start working with you. And this is important because with you. And this is important because there's some people like myself, right? there's some people like myself, right? I'm not really driven by running away I'm not really driven by running away from pain. I will quite happily sit

[18:01] from pain. I will quite happily sit through pain if it means that I get to through pain if it means that I get to solve the problem myself. I'm more solve the problem myself. I'm more motivated and you can easily pitch me motivated and you can easily pitch me and and sell me on products and services and and sell me on products and services if you pitch me on moving towards a if you pitch me on moving towards a brighter upside rather than away from brighter upside rather than away from pain. So, we need to cover both bases pain. So, we need to cover both bases here. And the more that you can push the

[18:18] here. And the more that you can push the current painful reality away from the current painful reality away from the bigger, brighter, bolder future, you bigger, brighter, bolder future, you pull them apart and then you position pull them apart and then you position your service as the bridge between the your service as the bridge between the two. The more excited this prospect is two. The more excited this prospect is going to be to get started with you, the going to be to get started with you, the more urgency they're going to have to more urgency they're going to have to say yes, hand over the cash, and just

[18:34] say yes, hand over the cash, and just get cracking. And then after this point get cracking. And then after this point of emotional back and forth, ups and of emotional back and forth, ups and downs on the call, we need to get back downs on the call, we need to get back to the nitty-gritty. The fourth thing to the nitty-gritty. The fourth thing that we need to cover is the ROI. We that we need to cover is the ROI. We need to put rough numbers. Even if they need to put rough numbers. Even if they are very rough, we need to put them on are very rough, we need to put them on the table early. It doesn't need to be

[18:50] the table early. It doesn't need to be precise. We don't need to have the exact precise. We don't need to have the exact numbers jotted down right in front of numbers jotted down right in front of us. We just need rough numbers, but we us. We just need rough numbers, but we got to put something in front of the got to put something in front of the prospect so they can see their problem prospect so they can see their problem is going to be less painful. Even if is going to be less painful. Even if they got to spend some cash to resolve they got to spend some cash to resolve it, we got to deliver essentially an it, we got to deliver essentially an ROI. And this now is the turning point

[19:08] ROI. And this now is the turning point in the call. This is where most business in the call. This is where most business owners start to get a little bit owners start to get a little bit uncomfortable. But you've got to ask uncomfortable. But you've got to ask what can sometimes feel like it's not a what can sometimes feel like it's not a difficult question, but it sometimes difficult question, but it sometimes feels like a difficult question to ask. feels like a difficult question to ask. You must clarify that the prospect has You must clarify that the prospect has the budget to work with you. Well, the the budget to work with you. Well, the good news here is that if you ask about good news here is that if you ask about the budget at this point in the call,

[19:24] the budget at this point in the call, they're already going to be pretty sold they're already going to be pretty sold on working with you. And so, they're on working with you. And so, they're going to happily share their finances. going to happily share their finances. And this step just goes straight by And this step just goes straight by pretty quickly. And it's never as pretty quickly. And it's never as stressful as what most business owners stressful as what most business owners think it's going to be before they start think it's going to be before they start doing this routinely. And then for step doing this routinely. And then for step six, before you wrap up, you've got to six, before you wrap up, you've got to lock in the next step of the buyer's

[19:41] lock in the next step of the buyer's journey. You need a specific time and a journey. You need a specific time and a date in both your calendar and their date in both your calendar and their calendar for whatever that next step may calendar for whatever that next step may be. Maybe it's a proposal. Maybe they be. Maybe it's a proposal. Maybe they need to get other members of the team on need to get other members of the team on a call. Whatever it is, doesn't really a call. Whatever it is, doesn't really matter. It's got to be locked in both matter. It's got to be locked in both your diaries. Otherwise, the discovery your diaries. Otherwise, the discovery call has not been completed. So,

[19:57] call has not been completed. So, indoctrinate your prospects. Work indoctrinate your prospects. Work through them with this discovery call through them with this discovery call process. And you're gonna find them process. And you're gonna find them literally asking towards the end of the literally asking towards the end of the call, okay, how do I get started? And call, okay, how do I get started? And that is obviously a massive buying that is obviously a massive buying signal, and that tells you that the signal, and that tells you that the process up until this point has worked. process up until this point has worked. Now, there is one final step that most

[20:14] Now, there is one final step that most service business owners completely skip service business owners completely skip when they are building out their sales when they are building out their sales system, and it's the one thing that system, and it's the one thing that kills deals that could have been kills deals that could have been absolutely easy wins. Because even when absolutely easy wins. Because even when a prospect wants to work with you and a prospect wants to work with you and they've got the budget to get started, they've got the budget to get started, there's often a logical rather than an

[20:30] there's often a logical rather than an emotional hurdle for them to say yes and emotional hurdle for them to say yes and paying the invoice. So that's what we're paying the invoice. So that's what we're going to tackle next. Okay. So think going to tackle next. Okay. So think about what happens the moment a prospect about what happens the moment a prospect has to justify their decision to work has to justify their decision to work with you to someone else within their with you to someone else within their business. It could be a a business business. It could be a a business partner. It could even be their boss, a partner. It could even be their boss, a board member, even their spouse if it's

[20:47] board member, even their spouse if it's a if it's a small business, right? The a if it's a small business, right? The prospect is never going to be able to do prospect is never going to be able to do the same job as you are capable or your the same job as you are capable or your sales team is capable of selling the sales team is capable of selling the pain, positioning the bigger, brighter, pain, positioning the bigger, brighter, bolder future reality and all the bolder future reality and all the emotions that come with that. And to be emotions that come with that. And to be quite honest, in fact, most of the other

[21:04] quite honest, in fact, most of the other secondary decision makers who are secondary decision makers who are involved in the buying process, even if involved in the buying process, even if they're just subtly involved in the they're just subtly involved in the buying process, they don't care about buying process, they don't care about any of that stuff anyway. They just any of that stuff anyway. They just typically want to understand the cold, typically want to understand the cold, hard numbers behind the investment to hard numbers behind the investment to work for you. And this is where the work for you. And this is where the business case comes in. And even the business case comes in. And even the really successful clients in my

[21:20] really successful clients in my mentorship, they often miss this step in mentorship, they often miss this step in their sales process before they start their sales process before they start working with me. And the results of working with me. And the results of implementing it have been absolutely implementing it have been absolutely crazy when it gets added in after the crazy when it gets added in after the fact. And this is because what it does fact. And this is because what it does is it removes this last logical buy is it removes this last logical buy between I want to do this and I'm doing

[21:37] between I want to do this and I'm doing this. You're giving the buyer, you're this. You're giving the buyer, you're giving the prospect the maths to back up giving the prospect the maths to back up their decision. So they don't have to their decision. So they don't have to rely on the gut feelings that they had rely on the gut feelings that they had on the call with you to then pitch those on the call with you to then pitch those feelings to other people that are around feelings to other people that are around them. You're giving them everything that them. You're giving them everything that they need to fight their corner and they need to fight their corner and pitch the people that have a say on this

[21:54] pitch the people that have a say on this decision or that they feel like should decision or that they feel like should have a say on this decision before they have a say on this decision before they move forward with your offer. And to be move forward with your offer. And to be real with you here, I teach a slightly real with you here, I teach a slightly more complex but persuasive structure in more complex but persuasive structure in my mentorship. But if you're not already my mentorship. But if you're not already doing business cases, if you're not doing business cases, if you're not already delivering them to your clients already delivering them to your clients after every single discovery call, then

[22:09] after every single discovery call, then this will do you fine. Let's start with this will do you fine. Let's start with the basics. So, we need to explain in the basics. So, we need to explain in the prospect's words from your discovery prospect's words from your discovery call the situation they find themselves call the situation they find themselves in. Even better, right? If you've in. Even better, right? If you've recorded your discovery calls, you can recorded your discovery calls, you can get them transcribed and then you can get them transcribed and then you can quote the actual buyer in the document.

[22:25] quote the actual buyer in the document. We all this cognitive bias. So, once we We all this cognitive bias. So, once we say something, we want to remain say something, we want to remain consistent with it. So, if you can use consistent with it. So, if you can use the prospect's quotes in the document, the prospect's quotes in the document, it makes all this a lot more persuasive. it makes all this a lot more persuasive. Then, in the next step of the business Then, in the next step of the business case, we want to document the financial case, we want to document the financial upside and the ROI of solving your upside and the ROI of solving your problem. And only once the ROI has been

[22:41] problem. And only once the ROI has been established do you now start talking established do you now start talking about you and your deliverables and how about you and your deliverables and how you intend to solve the problem. You've you intend to solve the problem. You've got to make the solution seem fast, got to make the solution seem fast, easy, and cost effective as you wrap it easy, and cost effective as you wrap it up and package it in this document. So up and package it in this document. So fast, easy, cost effective. And if you fast, easy, cost effective. And if you do that, that's kind of it. Adding this

[22:58] do that, that's kind of it. Adding this step alone can add 10 to 20% to the step alone can add 10 to 20% to the conversion rate at this step of your conversion rate at this step of your sales process. And once you put these sales process. And once you put these business cases together a couple of business cases together a couple of times, a handful of times, two or three times, a handful of times, two or three times, you can use AI to automate all of you can use AI to automate all of this as well. And when a clear ROI is on this as well. And when a clear ROI is on the table and the prospect has the cold, the table and the prospect has the cold, hard maths to convince themselves and

[23:14] hard maths to convince themselves and and anyone else within the account that and anyone else within the account that needs convincing that you are the needs convincing that you are the solution to the problem, it makes it solution to the problem, it makes it dead easy for them to say yes. So ICP, dead easy for them to say yes. So ICP, meeting booking process, discovery call meeting booking process, discovery call process, a business case at the end of process, a business case at the end of it. That is a super basic sales system it. That is a super basic sales system that's guaranteed to add new revenue to

[23:30] that's guaranteed to add new revenue to your business once it's implemented. your business once it's implemented. Now, when you get the sales system set Now, when you get the sales system set up and running, sales becomes simple and up and running, sales becomes simple and predictable, just like the client predictable, just like the client deliverable system that you've already deliverable system that you've already got in your business right now. And if got in your business right now. And if you want to hand get any of this set up, you want to hand get any of this set up, book a call in our calendar and let's book a call in our calendar and let's see if we're a good fit to work see if we're a good fit to work together. But there is another reason

[23:45] together. But there is another reason other than just selling systems why most other than just selling systems why most service-based businesses don't break the service-based businesses don't break the $1 million a year revenue number. And $1 million a year revenue number. And it's got nothing to do with sales it's got nothing to do with sales systems, process, and all about your own systems, process, and all about your own sales psychology. So, click up here to sales psychology. So, click up here to watch this video where I explain how

[24:00] watch this video where I explain how you're getting in your own way when you you're getting in your own way when you try and increase your revenue and try and increase your revenue and profits and what you should do about
